doc/content/vim/java/format.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2005 - 2012  Eric Van Dewoestine

   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
   the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
   (at your option) any later version.

   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
   GNU General Public License for more details.

   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
   along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Java Source Code Formatting
===========================

Eclim provides the ability to format java source code using the eclipse
formatter selected for your workspace.

Source code formatting is invoked in eclipse using the shortcut <C-S-F>, or
from the ``Source / Format menu``.  The eclim equivalent is invoked using the
**:JavaFormat** command described below.


.. _\:JavaFormat:

- **:JavaFormat** -
  Formats the current visual selection (or the current line, if nothing is
  selected). To format the whole file, use :%JavaFormat.

Given the following file\:

.. code-block:: java

 /**
  * @return
  *
  * Service
  * for test Eclipse <C-F> formatting.
  */
  public
  static String
  getAbstractService
  ()
  {
    if (abstractService == null)
    {
      throw new RuntimeException( "abstractService isn't initialized !");
    }
    return abstractService;
  }

You can execute **:%JavaFormat** to format the code according to your eclipse
settings.

.. code-block:: java

  /**
    * @return
    *
    * Service for test Eclipse <C-F> formatting.
    */
  public static String getAbstractService() {
    if (abstractService == null) {
      throw new RuntimeException("abstractService isn't initialized !");
    }
    return abstractService;
  }

Configuration
-------------

Currently source code formatting is only configurable via the eclipse GUI.  To
do so, shutdown eclim, start the eclipse GUI and configure your settings via\:

::

  Preferences : Java / Code Style / Formatter / Active Profile: / Edit

Commit message:

add setting to determine if java format removes tailing whitespace or not
fixes #346

doc/content/vim/java/format.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2005 - 2014  Eric Van Dewoestine

   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
   the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
   (at your option) any later version.

   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
   GNU General Public License for more details.

   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
   along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Java Source Code Formatting
===========================

Eclim provides the ability to format java source code using the eclipse
formatter selected for your workspace.

Source code formatting is invoked in eclipse using the shortcut <C-S-F>, or
from the ``Source / Format menu``.  The eclim equivalent is invoked using the
**:JavaFormat** command described below.


.. _\:JavaFormat:

- **:JavaFormat** -
  Formats the current visual selection (or the current line, if nothing is
  selected). To format the whole file, use :%JavaFormat.

Given the following file\:

.. code-block:: java

 /**
  * @return
  *
  * Service
  * for test Eclipse <C-F> formatting.
  */
  public
  static String
  getAbstractService
  ()
  {
    if (abstractService == null)
    {
      throw new RuntimeException( "abstractService isn't initialized !");
    }
    return abstractService;
  }

You can execute **:%JavaFormat** to format the code according to your eclipse
settings.

.. code-block:: java

  /**
    * @return
    *
    * Service for test Eclipse <C-F> formatting.
    */
  public static String getAbstractService() {
    if (abstractService == null) {
      throw new RuntimeException("abstractService isn't initialized !");
    }
    return abstractService;
  }

Configuration
-------------

.. _org.eclim.java.checkstyle.onvalidate:

- **org.eclim.java.format.strip_trialing_whitespace** -
  When set to true, all trailing whitespace will be removed when formatting java
  code.

Aside from the above configuration, source code formatting is only configurable
via the eclipse GUI. So to make changes to the eclipse java formatting rules,
shutdown eclim, start the eclipse GUI and configure your settings via\:

:menuselection:`Preferences --> Java --> Code Style --> Formatter --> Active
Profile: --> Edit`
