doc/content/vim/java/inspection.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2005 - 2013  Eric Van Dewoestine

   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
   the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
   (at your option) any later version.

   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
   GNU General Public License for more details.

   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
   along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Java Code Inspection
====================

.. _\:JavaHierarchy:

Class / Interface Hierarchy
---------------------------

When viewing a java class or interface you can view the type hierarchy by
issuing the command **:JavaHierarchy**.  This will open a temporary buffer with
an inversed tree view of the type hierarchy with the current class / interface
at the root.

.. code-block:: java

  public class XmlCodeCompleteCommand
    public class WstCodeCompleteCommand
      public class AbstractCodeCompleteCommand
        public class AbstractCommand
          public interface Command

Inner classes / interfaces are also supported.  Just place the cursor on the
inner class / interface before calling **:JavaHierarchy**.

While you are in the hierarchy tree buffer, you can jump to the type under the
cursor using one of the following key bindings:

- <cr> - open the type using the
  (:ref:`default action <g:EclimJavaHierarchyDefaultAction>`).
- E - open the type via :edit
- S - open the type via :split
- T - open the type via :tabnew
- ? - view help buffer

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:doc:`Vim Settings </vim/settings>`

.. _g\:EclimJavaHierarchyDefaultAction:

- **g:EclimJavaHierarchyDefaultAction** (defaults to 'split') -
  Determines the command used to open the type when hitting <enter> on the type
  entry in the hierarchy buffer.

.. _\:JavaCallHierarchy:

Call Hierarchy
--------------

When viewing a java source file you can view the call hierarchy of a method by
issuing the command **:JavaCallHierarchy**.  This will open a temporary buffer
with an inversed tree view of the hierarchy of callers of the requested method.

.. code-block:: java

  foo(int) : Object - org.test.SomeClass
     bar() : void - org.test.AnotherClass
       main() : void - org.test.MainClass
     baz(String) : int - org.test.AnotherClass

While you are in the hierarchy tree buffer, you can jump to the call under the
cursor using one of the following key bindings:

- <cr> - open the type using the
  (:ref:`default action <g:EclimJavaCallHierarchyDefaultAction>`).
- E - open the type via :edit
- S - open the type via :split
- T - open the type via :tabnew
- ? - view help buffer

**:JavaCallHierarchy** can also be used to view the callees for a method by
invoking the command with a ``!``:

.. code-block:: vim

  :JavaCallHierarchy!

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:doc:`Vim Settings </vim/settings>`

.. _g\:EclimJavaCallHierarchyDefaultAction:

- **g:EclimJavaCallHierarchyDefaultAction** (defaults to 'split') -
  Determines the command used to open the file when hitting <enter> on an entry
  in the hierarchy buffer.

Commit message:

add scope option to the vim :JavaCallHierarchy command
refs #416

doc/content/vim/java/inspection.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2005 - 2015  Eric Van Dewoestine

   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
   the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
   (at your option) any later version.

   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
   GNU General Public License for more details.

   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
   along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Java Code Inspection
====================

.. _\:JavaHierarchy:

Class / Interface Hierarchy
---------------------------

When viewing a java class or interface you can view the type hierarchy by
issuing the command **:JavaHierarchy**.  This will open a temporary buffer with
an inversed tree view of the type hierarchy with the current class / interface
at the root.

.. code-block:: java

  public class XmlCodeCompleteCommand
    public class WstCodeCompleteCommand
      public class AbstractCodeCompleteCommand
        public class AbstractCommand
          public interface Command

Inner classes / interfaces are also supported.  Just place the cursor on the
inner class / interface before calling **:JavaHierarchy**.

While you are in the hierarchy tree buffer, you can jump to the type under the
cursor using one of the following key bindings:

- <cr> - open the type using the
  (:ref:`default action <g:EclimJavaHierarchyDefaultAction>`).
- E - open the type via :edit
- S - open the type via :split
- T - open the type via :tabnew
- ? - view help buffer

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:doc:`Vim Settings </vim/settings>`

.. _g\:EclimJavaHierarchyDefaultAction:

- **g:EclimJavaHierarchyDefaultAction** (defaults to 'split') -
  Determines the command used to open the type when hitting <enter> on the type
  entry in the hierarchy buffer.

.. _\:JavaCallHierarchy:

Call Hierarchy
--------------

When viewing a java source file you can view the call hierarchy of a method by
issuing the command **:JavaCallHierarchy**.  This will open a temporary buffer
with an inversed tree view of the hierarchy of callers of the requested method.

.. code-block:: java

  foo(int) : Object - org.test.SomeClass
     bar() : void - org.test.AnotherClass
       main() : void - org.test.MainClass
     baz(String) : int - org.test.AnotherClass

While you are in the hierarchy tree buffer, you can jump to the call under the
cursor using one of the following key bindings:

- <cr> - open the type using the
  (:ref:`default action <g:EclimJavaCallHierarchyDefaultAction>`).
- E - open the type via :edit
- S - open the type via :split
- T - open the type via :tabnew
- ? - view help buffer

**:JavaCallHierarchy** can also be used to view the callees for a method by
invoking the command with a ``!``:

.. code-block:: vim

  :JavaCallHierarchy!

By default the call hierarchy (caller and callee) will search across your entire
workspace. If you want to limit the search to just the current project you can
use the scope (``-s``) option:

.. code-block:: vim

  :JavaCallHierarchy -s project

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:doc:`Vim Settings </vim/settings>`

.. _g\:EclimJavaCallHierarchyDefaultAction:

- **g:EclimJavaCallHierarchyDefaultAction** (defaults to 'split') -
  Determines the command used to open the file when hitting <enter> on an entry
  in the hierarchy buffer.
