doc/content/development/index.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2005 - 2014  Eric Van Dewoestine

   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
   the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
   (at your option) any later version.

   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
   GNU General Public License for more details.

   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
   along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Development Docs
================

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   gettingstarted
   architecture
   commands
   plugins
..   unittests
   installer

:doc:`/development/gettingstarted`

:doc:`/development/architecture`
  Explains the underlying architecture that eclim utilizes including an
  overview of the call sequence from vim to eclipse.

:doc:`/development/commands`
  Details the process of adding a new command to vim which calls to
  a corresponding implementation in eclipse.

:doc:`/development/plugins`
  Details the process of adding a new plugin to eclim.

**... More To Come**

.. :doc:`/development/unittests`

  Explains how to run the unit tests as well as create new junit or vunit test
  cases.

.. :doc:`/development/installer`

  Outlines the basics of the eclim installer and how to add support for newly
  added plugins.

.. :doc:`/development/documentation`

  Guide on writing documentation for eclim.

Commit message:

small developer getting started changes
- move the installer info to a separate page
- add info on adding eclim as a project once it's been checked out and
  built.

doc/content/development/index.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2005 - 2015  Eric Van Dewoestine

   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
   the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
   (at your option) any later version.

   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
   GNU General Public License for more details.

   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
   along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Development Docs
================

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   gettingstarted
   architecture
   commands
   plugins
   installer
..   unittests

:doc:`/development/gettingstarted`

:doc:`/development/architecture`
  Explains the underlying architecture that eclim utilizes including an
  overview of the call sequence from vim to eclipse.

:doc:`/development/commands`
  Details the process of adding a new command to vim which calls to
  a corresponding implementation in eclipse.

:doc:`/development/plugins`
  Details the process of adding a new plugin to eclim.

:doc:`/development/installer`
  Short guide on how to build the eclim installer.

**... More To Come**

.. :doc:`/development/unittests`

  Explains how to run the unit tests as well as create new junit or vunit test
  cases.

.. :doc:`/development/installer`

  Outlines the basics of the eclim installer and how to add support for newly
  added plugins.

.. :doc:`/development/documentation`

  Guide on writing documentation for eclim.
